Docs 2908 incomplete information encrypt mule agent pw hn (#207)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/rtm-agent-config-yaml.adoc

= Update Agent Configuration in mule-agent.yml
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: agent, runtime manager, mule, esb, servers, monitor, notifications, external systems, third party, get status, metrics

_Enterprise Edition_

image:logo-cloud-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies", title="CloudHub"]
image:logo-hybrid-active.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies", title="Hybrid Deployment"]
image:logo-server-active.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies", title="Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition"]

When you run `amc_setup` with parameters to install Runtime Manager agent, the agent configuration is written to the `$MULE_HOME/conf/mule-agent.yml` file. At startup, the agent reads its configuration from this file.

You can further configure or change the agent configuration by manually adding or editing parameters in the `mule-agent.yml` file.

> Some agent components allow you to configure them during runtime. For information, see xref:administration-service.adoc[Administration Service].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure some agent components during runtime. For information, see xref:administration-service.adoc[Administration Service].
```

> Some agent components allow you to configure them during runtime. For information, see xref:administration-service.adoc[Administration Service].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure some agent components during runtime. For information, see xref:administration-service.adoc[Administration Service].
```

== mule-agent.yml File Structure

> The `mule-agent.yml` file has the following structure:

Reviewer: Wow, the numbering of lists in AsciiDoc is weird. I would expect 1., then a., then i....
But we are stuck with what we are stuck with, I guess.
(We should almost never use the i. level, anyway.)
I wonder if a graphic would be cooler?

. Component types
+

> Transports, services, internalHandlers, and externalHanders

Reviewer: Can we just spell out internal and external handlers, without using these names? Also, a typo:
```suggestion
Transports, services, internalHandlers, and externalHandlers
```

+
.. Component name
+
For example, `mule.agent.jmx.publisher.service`
+
... Component configuration
+

> A component can have complex object configurations, including more than one recursive level.

Reviewer: "one recursive level" or "one level of recursion"?

Here is an example `mule-agent.yml` file:

[source,yaml,linenums]
----

> muleInstanceUniqueId: validId

Reviewer 2: I think this example is wrong. I think the content of a mule-agent.yml is like this (i am taking this from my runtime):
```
transports:
  rest.agent.transport:
    enabled: false
  websocket.transport:
    enabled: true
    consoleUri: wss://mule-manager.anypoint.mulesoft.com:443/mule
    handshake:
      enabled: true
      body: null
globalConfiguration:
  security:
    keyStorePassword: keyStorePass
    keyStoreAlias: agent
    keyStoreAliasPassword: keyStoreAliasPass
  authenticationProxy:
    endpoint: https://arm-auth-proxy.cloudhub.io
internalHandlers:
  mule.agent.tracking.handler.analytics:
    enabled: false
services:
  mule.agent.logging.service:
    applicationLogLevels:
    - artifactName: application-1
      scopeLoggingConfigurations: []
    - artifactName: application-2
      scopeLoggingConfigurations: []
    enabled: true
```

Author: Thanks. Replaced.

organizationId: organizationId

transports:
    rest.agent.transport:
        security:
            keyStorePassword: rmakeystore.jks
            keyStoreAlias: rma
            keyStoreAliasPassword: mulesoft
        port: 9997

services:
    mule.agent.application.service:
        enabled: true

    mule.agent.domain.service:
        enabled: true

    mule.agent.jmx.publisher.service:
        enabled: true
        frequency: 15
        frequencyTimeUnit: MINUTES
        beans:
            -   beanQueryPattern: java.lang:type=Runtime
                attribute: Uptime
                monitorMessage: Monitoring memory up-time
            -   beanQueryPattern: java.lang:type=MemoryPool,*
                attribute: Usage.used
                monitorMessage" : Used Memory

internalHandlers:
    domaindeploymentnotification.internal.message.handler:
        enabled: false

    applicationdeploymentnotification.internal.message.handler:
        enabled: false
----

== Enable Both REST Agent Transport and WebSocket Transport

> When you register Mule runtime engine with Runtime Manager, the generated `mule-agent.yml` disables the REST agent transport and replaces any existing configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you register Mule runtime engine with Runtime Manager, the generated `mule-agent.yml` file disables the REST agent transport and replaces any existing configuration.
```

Conversely, if you run `./amc_setup -I`, you enable the REST agent transport and disable the WebSocket transport (it replaces any existing WebSocket transport configuration used to connect to Runtime Manager).

> To run both transports, modify the `mule-agent.yml` file with the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run both transports, modify the `mule-agent.yml` file with the following values:
```

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
transports:
  websocket.transport:
    consoleUri: wss://mule-manager.anypoint.mulesoft.com:443/mule
    security:
      keyStorePassword: _password_
      keyStoreAlias: agent
      keyStoreAliasPassword: _password_
      handshake:
        enabled: true
        body:
          agentVersion: 1.1.0
          muleVersion: 3.7.0
          gatewayVersion: 2.0.2
  rest.agent.transport:
    port: 8888

services:
  mule.agent.jmx.publisher.service:
    enabled: true
    frequency: 15
    frequencyTimeUnit: MINUTES
----

== Sending Data to External Analytics Tools

If you want to use Runtime Manager agent to send data from Runtime Manager to Splunk, an ELK stack, or other external software, see xref:sending-data-from-arm-to-external-analytics-software.adoc[Export Data to External Analytics Tools].

== JMX Monitoring Publication Services

MuleSoft provides several OpenSource JMX monitoring publishing modules for Cloudwatch, Graphite, Nagios, and Zabbix:

> * Cloudwatch publishers allow users to send JMX metrics to Amazon Cloudwatch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Cloudwatch publishers enable users to send JMX metrics to Amazon Cloudwatch.
```

* Graphite provides Graphite JMX metrics integration.
* Nagios provides integration with Nagios.
+
This module is included in Mule runtime engine.
* Zabbix sends metrics to Zabbix instances.

For information, see xref:jmx-service.adoc[JMX].

== Configuring the Log Location

You can configure the agent to log its state in a different location than the default `mule_agent.log` file. For information, see xref:3.8@mule-runtime::logging-in-mule.adoc#configuring-logs-for-runtime-manager-agent[Logging in Mule].

> This option is only supported in version 1.5.2 or later of Runtime Manager agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option is supported only in Runtime Manager agent 1.5.2 or later.
```
